---
title: "Use VSCode Remote SSH with gcloud compute ssh"
date: 2024-01-05T09:24:08-06:00
draft: false
categories: ["tips-and-tricks"]
tags: ["tips-and-tricks"]
---

## Prerequisites

Before we begin, ensure you have the following tools installed:

1. [Google Cloud CLI (gcloud)](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install) - Essential for managing Google Cloud resources from the command line.
2. [VSCode Remote - SSH Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-ssh) - This extension allows VSCode to connect to remote machines using SSH.

## Step-by-Step Instructions

### Updating SSH Configuration

First, we need to update the SSH configuration to include the Google Cloud Compute (GCE) instance. This involves setting a ProxyCommand to facilitate the connection. Here’s how you do it:

1. Open your SSH config file (usually found at `~/.ssh/config`).
2. Add the following configuration for your GCE instance:

```ssh
Host my-gce-instance-name
  HostName my-gce-instance-name
  User your_username
  ProxyCommand gcloud compute ssh %r@%h -- -W %h:%p
```

Replace `my-gce-instance-name` with your instance name and `your_username` with your GCE username.

*Note:* The `ProxyCommand` might require adjustments based on your setup. For instance, specify the `--zone` flag if you haven’t set a default zone in gcloud. Basically you should use ther same args you would use when connecting directly using `gcloud compute ssh` normally.

Refer to the [gcloud compute ssh documentation](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/compute/ssh) for detailed information.

### Connecting via VSCode

With your SSH config updated, you can now connect to your GCE instance using VSCode:

1. Launch VSCode.
2. Open the `Remote Explorer` from the left sidebar.
3. In the `Remote Explorer` panel, select `Remotes (SSH/Tunnels)` from the dropdown menu at the top.
4. Expand the `SSH` section. You should see the `Host` you defined in your SSH config.
5. Click on the defined `Host` to establish a connection.

And that's it! You're now connected to your GCE instance through VSCode, ready to work remotely with the power of cloud computing at your fingertips.
